# The human body is an example of object that can be represented as a system. Consider the various ways in which you could represent the human body as a system. Select a representation and identify the components that constitute the system. Select one component and decompose it to the next subsystem level. You may attach the picture describing your work.

The human biology scientific community organizes the human body into major organ systems, groups of organs that work together to carry out a function. The human body organ systems including the cardiovascular, lymphatic, digestive, endocrine, integumentary, muscular, nervous, reproductive, respiratory, skeletal, urinary, and immune (Wilkin, D. P., & Brainard, J. P. 2016). Another way to represent the human body as a system could be through the method of medical doctor expertise. Cardiologists specialize on heart and blood vessels, gastroenterologists specialize in digestive organs, dermatologists specialize in skin, otolaryngologists specialize in ears, nose, throat, and so on (Freeman, B. 2013). The human body can also get examined as a system based around location. The foot as a seperate subsystem than an arm or the eyes. 

One component of the organ system approach that could be broken down as a subsystem is the digestive system, which oversees food and water intake for conversion into energy. The components, or organs, that make up the digestive system are the salivary glands, the tongue, the epiglottis, the esophagus, the stomach, the liver, the pancreases, the intestines, the colon, the appendix, the cecum, and the rectum. The mouth, which includes the tongue and salivary glands, begin the mechanical and chemical breakdown of the food. After being broken down by teeth and saliva, the food is transported down the long tube of the esophagus into the stomach. The stomach churns and releases enzymes to continue breaking down the food which it passes into the small intestine. The small intestine is the site of most of the absorbtion of the macronutrients, such as protein, carbohydrates, and lipids. The food is then passed into the large intestine which digestes the remainder of the nutrients and minerals as well as prepares it for elimination (Wilkin, D. P., & Brainard, J. P. 2016).

Wilkin, D. P., & Brainard, J. P. (2016). Biology 2.0. Palo Alto, CA: CK-12 Foundation.
Freeman, B. (2013). The Ultimate Guide to Choosing a Medical Specialty, Third Edition. The McGraw-Hill Companies.